AI Case Study: Social Support Application Workflow Automation

1. Background
This role focuses on hands-on solution design to implementation acumen with AI thought
leadership to influence AI best practices for the public sector regionally and globally. The
role involves rapid AI product prototyping and implementations to drive impact through
operational efficiency and benefits to residents and citizens. This take-home assessment
evaluates your practical AI skills in designing and implementing an AI solution.

2. Problem Statement
You are developing an AI workflow for a government social security department, which
provides financial and economic enablement support for needy applicants. The current
application process takes 5 to 20 working days to assess and approve support for applicants
and families.

The current process has several pain points:
 Manual Data Gathering: Manual entry of applicant details from scanned documents,
physical document collection from government offices, and extraction of information
from handwritten forms, leading to data entry errors and delays.
 Semi-Automated Data Validations: Basic form field validation with manual checks
for inconsistencies, requiring significant manual effort to identify and correct errors.
 Inconsistent Information: Discrepancies in address information between application
forms and credit bureau reports, variations in income reporting across different
financial documents, and conflicting family member details across submitted
documents.
 Time-Consuming Reviews: Multiple rounds of application reviews involving
different departments and stakeholders, causing delays and bottlenecks in the approval
process.
 Subjective Decision-Making: Assessment prone to human bias, leading to
inconsistent decisions and potential unfairness in the allocation of support.  

3. Solution Scope
The goal is to automate the application process, aiming for up to 99% automated social
support applications decision-making within a few minutes of live interactions with GenAI
Chatbot. For this exercise, you can make assumptions and leverage as much synthetic or
mockup data to develop the prototype solution. The solution should:

OPEN | مفتوحة

 Ingest data from interactive application form and attachments such as bank statement,
emirates ID, resume, assets/liabilities excel file and credit report.
 Assess applications based on criteria such as income level, employment history,
family size, wealth assessment and demographic profile to determine eligibility for
financial support and economic enablement support.
 Provide recommendations to approve (or soft decline) for economic social support.
 Provide recommendations for economic enablement support (e.g., upskilling and
training opportunities, job matching, career counseling).
The solution must include:
 Locally hosted ML and LLM models.
 Multimodal (text, images, and tabular data) data processing and storage.
 Interactive Chat interaction.
 Agentic AI Orchestration.

4. Technology Stack and Tools
You are encouraged to use the recommended tools below under each category.
 Programming Language: Python.
 Data Pipeline:
o Relational Databases: PostgreSQL
o NoSQL Databases: MongoDB
o Vector Databases: Qdrant / Redis
o Graph Database: Neo4j / ArangoDB
 AI/ML Model and GenAI Pipeline:
o Scikit-learn algorithms for classification, explaining your choices based on
data characteristics and problem statement.
o Select and justify specific tools to handle specific data types (text, images,
tabular data).
o Design and develop GenAI Agents such as master orchestrator, data
extraction, data validation, eligibility check and decision recommendation.
 Agent Reasoning Framework: Use one or more reasoning frameworks in your
solution such as ReAct, Reflexion, PaS etc.
 Agent Orchestration: Use one or more Agentic orchestration tool such as Agno,
Synthetic Kernal, LangGraph, Crew.AI etc.
 Model Hosting: Use Ollama, OpenWebUI to host and interact with local LLM.
 Agent Observability: Use Langfuse for end-to-end AI observability.
 Model Serving: Use one or more tool such as FastAPI etc.
 Front-End: Use Streamlit.
 Version Control: Use GitHub for hosting end to end solutions artifacts and detailed
step by step documentation.

5. Submission Guidelines

OPEN | مفتوحة

 All source code files via private GitHub link with detailed documentation.
 A README.md file with clear instructions on how to run the application.
 A solution summary document (up to 10 pages) outlining your solution design,
including:
o A high-level architecture diagram of your solution, detailing data flow and
component interactions.
o Justify your tools choice specifically considering their suitability, scalability,
maintainability, performance, and security.
o A breakdown of the AI solution workflow into modular components.
o Suggestions for future improvements and how this solution could be integrated
into existing systems, including API design and data pipeline considerations.

6. Evaluation Criteria
Your submission will be evaluated based on the following criteria:
 Functionality: Does the prototype address all core requirements in sections 2 and 3,
using the tools in section 4?
 Code Quality: Is the code clean, well-organized, and properly documented? Is it
modular and easy to support and extend?
 Solution Design: Is the architecture well-thought-out, scalable, and relevant to the
problem and solution scope? Does it show an understanding of AI/ML principles,
software engineering best practices, and system design?
 Integration: How effectively are key components integrated, and are tools used to
drive a scalable and robust solution? Are APIs and data pipelines designed
effectively?
 Demo UI: Is the demo UI user-friendly?
 Problem-Solving: How well did you address the challenges met during development?
 Communication: Is your documentation clear, concise, and thorough?